_____________________________________________________________________________

                                T o o l b a r

                           Pull-down app launcher

                    Written by David Thomas, © 1996-2020
                       
                         version 1.22 (21 Aug 2020)
_____________________________________________________________________________


Overview
________

Toolbar is pull-down bar which can be used to launch applications, run files
and open directories. It can be configured to reside on either on the top
left or right-hand side of the desktop and stores the names of up to 32
different objects.


Usage
-----

Load Toolbar by double-clicking on its icon in a directory display. It will
load and display its title bar on the top left-hand side of the screen.

The toolbar is initially empty; you will not be able to pull it down onto the
screen. To add an application, directory or file (henceforth, an object) to
the toolbar drag it onto the title bar visible in the top left-hand part of
the screen. It will be added to the toolbar and you will be able to pull the
toolbar down.

Each object has a button created for it with a small sprite to the left of
the button. (The sprite is not part of the actual button, and clicking on it
will have no effect). To launch the object you have added to the toolbar,
just click SELECT over it. Once you click, the object is launched and the
toolbar will retract back into its original position. Alternatively, clicking
with ADJUST will launch the object, but will keep the toolbar from
retracting.

Clicking MENU will open a menu with the standard Info and Quit entries on it,
plus three others. "Remove" will remove the object that was under the pointer
when you clicked MENU. "Save" will store the current configuration which will
be autmatically restored when Toolbar is next run. "Right" toggles the side
of the screen on which toolbar resides (this option is stored when the
configuration is saved).

Double-clicking on the title bar will either make Toolbar extend to its full
extent or make it retract into its standard position. Whether it extends or
retracts depends on what position it is currently in - if it's in its
standard position then it will extend, otherwise it will retract.

The toolbar can be controlled with two key combinations. The first, Ctrl-T,
has the same effect as double-clicking on the title bar. The second,
Shift-Ctrl-T, will bring the Toolbar to the top of the window stack. Using
Shift-Ctrl-T when the Toolbar is at the top of the window stack will send it
to the bottom. This will only work when another application is not currently
accepting the Ctrl-T keypresses, so editor windows must not have the input
focus.


Multiple Toolbars
-----------------

You can have multiple toolbars by invoking Toolbar multiple times. A system
variable, Toolbar%ActiveMask records which instances are running. Each
toolbar assigns itself the next free slot, positions itself accordingly and
reads its configuration from <Choices$Write>.Toolbar<N>.


Notes
-----

 - The configuration will be saved to <Choices$Write>.Toolbar.

 - There is additional configuration available in the !Toolbar.Extras file.

 - There is a default limit of 32 objects. This can be changed by editing the
   Extras file.

 - The longest object leafname you should use with Toolbar is 31.
   32-character names will corrupt the next button's contents. Again you can
   increase this limit in the Extras file.
   
 - You can freely position the toolbar by holding down Ctrl while dragging.


History
-------

1.22 (21 Aug 2020)
 - Another decade passes.
 - Since Filer 2.40 and above inhibits Shift-run we now "Filer_Run -Shift
   ..." on those versions of the Filer.

1.21 (31 Jul 2009)
 - FNvar was terminating memory that it didn't own. RISC OS 6 correctly
   faulted this. Fixed.

1.20 (29 Jul 2009)
 - A decade passes.
 - Toolbars now 'woosh' (unfurl/retract) at a constant speed even if the
   desktop is heavily loaded.
 - You can have multiple toolbars by running it multiple times.
 - !RunImage is no longer squashed.

1.08 (31 Dec 1998)
 - Fix: Buttons weren't working when single-click operation was configured.

1.07 (30 Dec 1998)
 - Minor adjustments.

1.06 (29 Dec 1998)
 - Click actions were incorrect, causing problems on RISC OS 3.8.
 - Wimp_Initialise now specifies 310.
 - Extra configuration provided in !Toolbar.Extras, which allows the
   following values to be configured:
   - Name of the êSpritesë file to use
   - Maximum number of buttons
   - Height of buttons
   - Toolbar width
   - Toolbar title bar height
   - Toolbar title bar text
   - Filer_Boot apps on startup
   - Single click operation
   - Wooshiness
   - and a number of internal values.

1.05 (10 Jan 1998) / (03 Mar 1998)
 - The toolbar now retracts to itës default position on a mode change
   (MField).
 - Wimp auto-redraw had been left off.  Oops.  Should be faster now.
 - Simplified certain sections of the code.
 - If youëre prepared to delve into !RunImage, altering Q% will change the
   width of the bar.  Altering l% will change the height of the buttons.

1.04 (14 Oct 1997)
 - First Freeware release.
 - Ctrl-T changed to Shift-Ctrl-T, Ctrl-T now behaves like double-clicking
   on the title bar.
 - Reference to TIME replaced with a SYS OS_ReadMonotonicTime.
 - Changes to the width of the toolbar.
 - The prog_info window has been altered.
 - êWonët obscure icon barë behaviour removed.

1.03 (08 Nov 1996)
 - Acorn User release
 - The window frame is now considered part of the title bar, so it can be
   double-clicked and dragged etc. to move the window.
 - All applications are now Filer_Booted, such that their icons appear.
   (thomës suggestion)
 - The toolbar will now never obscure the icon bar.
 - Now uses PollIdle and masks out null polls.

1.02 (14 Oct 1996)
 - Double-clicking the title bar now makes the window scroll up and down
   into position.
 - Ctrl-T implemented - toggles the window between the top and bottom or the
   window stack.
 - <Choices$Write>.Toolbar is used for options if itës available.

1.01 (08 Oct 1996)
 - Now works in ê24ë modes at the expense of the window looking slightly
   less authentic (a black horizontal bar is now missing).
 - Needs 4K more. :-(
 - Various bugs splatted.

1.00 (23 Aug 1996)
 - First version.


Copyright and License
_____________________

Copyright © 1996-2020, David Thomas. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS îAS ISï
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


Contact Addresses
_________________

If you have any comments, bug reports or suggestions for future versions then
you can contact dave@davespace.co.uk.

If you have a question, then please check it has not already been answered in
this documentation before mailing.

_____________________________________________________________________________

